1. How to switch from login user to root user

    sudo -i

2. what is cd

    change directory, this command is used to switch to different directories

3. what is the difference between cd and cd/?

   cd / is used to navigate to root directory 
   cd or "cd ~" is used to navigate to home directory
   

4. What's the difference between the root directory and the home directory?

   The root directory is the top-most directory in the file system hierarchy
   while the home directory is specific to a user,You might think of the root directory as the trunk of a tree
   and the home directory as one of the branches dedicated to you

5. what are other directory commands?

   pwd: The pwd command will allow you to know in which directory you're located
   ls: The ls command will show you ('list') the files in your current directory
   ls~ :will show you the files that are in your home directory.
   ls -l : will show the list of files will all details in current directory.
   ls -a : will show the list of all files including hidden files in current directory.
   cd.. :will navigate you to parent directory of current directory.

6. How to create empty file and directory ?

   touch :- touch command is used to create an empty file
   mkdir : will allow you to create directories. 
    Example: "mkdir music" will create a directory called "music".
   

7. how to remove a file and directory  ?

   rm :  Use this command to remove or delete a file in your directory
   rmdir: The rmdir command will delete an empty directory. 
          Example: "mkdir rk" will create a directory called "rk".
   rm -rf : is used to delete a directory and all of its contents recursively.

8. how to edit a file ?

   VIM/VI :- visual interface is used to edit the content of a file

9. How to view the content of any file ?

   CAT :- used to view the content of a file

10. how to copy a file or directory ?

   CP :- is used to copy a file or directory
   cp -r :- "-r" shall be used if sorce file is not empty

11. How to move a file or directory ?

   mv :- is used to move a file or directory and it can also be used for rename a directory

12. How to check system memory details ?

   df -h :- gives the disk space usage of the file system
   du -hs file :- gives the disk space usage by the specific file
   free -m :- gives the ram/swap memory details in megabytes
   free -g :- gives the ram/swap memory details in gegabytes

13. How to search an expression in a file ?

    grep :- Global Regular expression print,it is used to pick the required expression from the file and print the output  

       grep value/folder/file.

     "-i" will be used when there is requirement to not consider the case sensitive

       grep -i value/folder/file

    "-nA2" this will print the after two lines of values also

       grep -nA2 value/folder/file
     
     "-nB2" this will print the before two lines of values also

       grep -nB2 value/folder/file

14. what is meant by pipe command ?

    The pipe command in Linux, represented by the vertical bar symbol "|".
    It is used to connect the output of one command directly into the input of another.

   
    grep value/folder/file|tee a.text :- 
    
     grep will get the line containing nthe value and that output will be saved in "a.txt" file using "tee" cmd.

15. what are head and tail commands?

    head :- is used to print first 10 lines of content in the specified file.

      head /folder/file.

    head -5/folder/file :-

    "-5" is used to print first 5 lines of content in a file

    tail :- is used to print last 10 lines of content in the specified file

     tail /folder/file.

    tail -5/folder/file :-

    "-5" is used to print last 5 lines of content in a file

*****
     how to print the 14th line of a file ?

  head -14/folder/file | tail -1

    first head command will print the first 14 lines of content and that output is given as input to tail command .
    "tail" will print the last line.










